[MUSIC]
>> Jafar Husain: Let's listen, first.
Let's go through the process,
the problem-solving process.
The first is we take,
comment that out so it doesn't keep.
We take the streams that we have,
like key presses.
And, in this case, the search results that
come out of getWikipediaSearchResults.
And we compose them together to
create the stream that we want.
What's the stream that we want?
We have to start there.
We have to decide, what is the stream
of data that we actually want?
This is an autocomplete box.
What I want is the stream of all
of the search results that come
back from the server.
Sometimes, when you're trying to
figure out the stream that you want,
it helps to work backwards.
Which is to say, what would I do with
the data that comes out of the stream?
What are we gonna do with the data that
comes out the search results that come
back from the server?
>> Jafar Husain: Anybody tell me,
in an autocomplete box?
What's the action where we do something,
where we change something?
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE] live search
[INAUDIBLE]
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah,
when a search result comes back from
the server, we wanna put it on screen.
That's the thing where
we're changing something,
changing something inside of the browser.
I'm gonna create a spot inside of here.
We're not gonna be too fancy
with the formatting here.
We're just gonna create a spot
to store our search results.
For now, I might even just make it a text
area, and we'll make it a something
a little fancy later.
>> Jafar Husain: I might just fork
right now.
>> Jafar Husain: That looks scary.
Save that.
>> Jafar Husain: So
now we've created a little spot on
screen to store our search results.
If I had to script JS,
>> Jafar Husain: What I
wanna do is I wanna
start with key presses.
Obviously, everything starts
with a key press, right?
I'm gonna create my
searchResultSets observable.
The searchResultSets observable
is going to look like this.
If you were to to visualize it,
it would be an observable.
Remember, my special syntax for
observable.
This is the syntax I'm inventing, which
is this collection of items over time.
If we were to picture what
searchResultSets is gonna look like,
it's gonna look like this.
Let's say we type a, and then we type b.
We're gonna get an observable
array of results.
And the fact that it's
an array doesn't matter.
It could be a number, but
it's still a flat observable of results.
It just happens to contain arrays.
If I type a first, and then I type ab,
I'll only be left with abacus.
Notice, this searchResultSets
observable is gonna go on forever.
It's never gonna stop because, at any
moment, somebody could hit a key press.
That's the observable
that we want to create.
What observables do we have?
We have key presses, and
what does it look like?
Well, what would a key press look like?
Something like, it's actually an event
object, but something like this.
If we were to just pull out
the key that was pressed,
that's what key presses would look like.
How do we go from this, and this?
It's a long function name.
>> Jafar Husain: What
will getWikipediaSearchResults look like,
if we were to visualize
it as an observable?
It would be an observable that goes on for
a long time.
And then, eventually,
gives us these results.
And then completes.
Notice that it completes.
>> Jafar Husain: As
you're building observables,
it's really helpful.
And I recommend this as your coding,
to comment on top of these observerables.
Actually comment and use the stream to
convey what the streams gonna look like.
You can actually visualize it
using this fake syntax here.
So we've got key presses.
We start off with this infinite observable
of a, b, c, whatever they happen to click.
And now we've also got
getWikipediaSearchResults.
Which, when given a term,
will give us an observable
that will eventually give us
an array of search results that end.
How do we put them together
to build searchResultSets,
which is an infinite
observable of search results?
Because this is the problem.
It's how do you take
the event that you want?
And then take the events that you have?
And squeeze them together to
create the one that you want?
I want some brain-storming ideas here.
How can I ease this?
It's always just a little bit of time.
I'm gonna ease this closer to this,
right here.
What would be the first operation I
might use?
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Jafar Husain: I'm sorry?
>> Speaker 2: The throttle.
>> Jafar Husain: Well, the throttle, yeah.
We talked about, yesterday,
that we wanna turn something like this.
And that would be turning
something like this,
>> Jafar Husain: Into this.
keyPresses.throttle will look like this.
>> Jafar Husain: Can anybody tell
me why it'll look like that?
>> Speaker 3: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Jafar Husain: Yes.
The way throttle works is we get a key.
Then after certain duration, if we get
another key, we drop the previous key and
we keep that key.
Then we wait a certain duration,
and if nothing happens.
If another key doesn't come in,
then we return the item.
So now that we're visualizing it,
we can start to see how these
operators transform the stream.
Let's say, fine, we do a throttle.
Now, how do we go from this to this?
>> Speaker 3: Does throttle
use switchNext, or whatever that one is?
>> Jafar Husain: Doesn't use switchLatest.
switchLatest would only work on
a two-dimensional observable.
In this case, under the hood,
it just you know creates a timer using
something like setTimeout
to keep track of it.
How do we get closer, here, guys?
We've got a stream of keys and
we wanna, somehow,
turn it into a stream of search results.
It's almost like we wanna substitute
each key for search results.
Map, I hear map.
I'm gonna start out coding here,
keypresses, and I'm gonna code a map.
So we've got a key in here.
Let's throw in a throttle as well.
Because we know we want to do that to
make the screen a little less chatty.
>> Jafar Husain: Let's just give it
20 milliseconds.
As we go, I'm gonna paste above, and
I think this is a nice thing to do.
Paste above what it looks
like at every stage.
As you're going through your code,
this is a nice way to comment your code.
If you want folks to
understand what's going on.
This is actually a nice technique
to use as you write code.
To keep showing what an example stream
would look like after the transformation.
For every key,
what do we wanna substitute in this place?
What do we wanna replace the b key with?
I think, ideally,
the search results for B.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah,
an array.
>> Jafar Husain: An array?
Yeah, you're right.
Absolutely an array.
Right, good.
The array of search results for that.
How are we gonna get there, though?
>> Jafar Husain: We know that
getWikipediaSearchResults will
give us an observable of array.
That's a little bit closer
than the key press.
>> Speaker 4: We have to call the for
each of the Wikipedia search results,
right?
>> Jafar Husain: Good thinking,
good thinking, but here's the thing.
We're only going to call for
each once in this program.
Because, remember, we're gonna
separate our code into two parts.
One, we're going to build
the stream that we want.
And you don't use for
each at all to do that.
Once we've built the stream that we want,
then we're gonna call for each.
And we're gonna do something with it.
So now the only choices on the table
are map, filter, concatAll,
switchLatest, mergeAll, and reduce.
>> Speaker 3: I was gonna
say maybe concatMap, because we don't
necessarily need to be that layer deeper.
>> Jafar Husain: Interesting.
So you're saying, if we map.
Why don't we start with map and
come back to the concatAll.
Because, remember, the technique, guys.
Keep mapping until you've got everything
in scope that you need to build your
search result.
And then at the end, figure out how
deep you are and flatten it out again.
How do we how do we get closer?
We know we've got this function.
Wouldn't it be better if
we substituted this for
an observable of the search results for b?
That would be closer.
Let's just, using map,
cuz map's all about substitution.
We can replace b with
the getWikipediaSearch,
do I have that name right?
Yep, getWikpediaSearchResults.
Now, am I going to use the key?
Do I wanna search for b?
>> Speaker 4: No,
you're gonna use the value of the textbox.
>> Jafar Husain: Absolutely,
I'm gonna pull up
the value of the textbox.
So now what does our stream look like?
>> Jafar Husain: Let's say I
typed a first, and then I type b.
>> Jafar Husain: What if, while
the request is going out for a, somebody
types b, and now is searching for ab?
We actually start another network request
while we're waiting for the previous one.
Concurrency, and it's going, it's going.
And now we're only left abacus.
How many dimensions deep are we?
How many dimensions of
observable do we have?
>> Speaker 2: Two.
>> Jafar Husain: A two-dimensional
observable.